feat(python): Migration guide for 2.x (#9248)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/python/migration/1.x-to-2.x.mdx

---

> title: Migrating from Sentry SDK 1.x to 2.x

Reviewer: I would remove the "from" to have a title that fits in the sidebar.

sidebar_order: 8998
description: "Learn about migrating from sentry-python 1.x to 2.x"
---

<Note>

> There is no stable 2.0 release of the Sentry Python SDK yet. An alpha version (`2.0a1`) is available for testing. If you decide to give it a try, please [let us know](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/issues) if you run into any issues!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no stable 2.0 release of the Sentry Python SDK yet. An alpha version (`2.0.0a1`) is available for testing. If you decide to give it a try, please [let us know](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/issues) if you run into any issues!
```

    profiles_sample_rate=1.0,  # replaces _experiments["profiles_sample_rate"]
    profiler_mode="thread",  # replaces _experiments["profiler_mode"]
)
```

## Python version support

Sentry Python SDK 2.0 now only supports Python 3.6 and higher. If you're on Python 2.7 or 3.5 and lower, you'll need to stay on 1.x.

## API

The deprecated top level API function `last_event_id()` was removed. The last event ID is still returned by `capture_event()`, `capture_exception()` and `capture_message()`.

## Custom instrumentation

If you create a transaction manually and later mutate the transaction in a `configure_scope` block this does not work anymore. Here is a recipe on how to change your code to make it work:

**Old**:

<SignInNote />

```python
transaction = sentry_sdk.transaction(...)

# later in the code execution:

with sentry_sdk.configure_scope() as scope:
    scope.set_transaction_name("new-transaction-name")
```

**New**:

<SignInNote />

```python
transaction = sentry_sdk.transaction(...)

# later in the code execution:

scope = sentry_sdk.Scope.get_current_scope()
scope.set_transaction_name("new-transaction-name")
```

> ## Transport

Reviewer: Maybe add a headline "Self hosted" here and move the "Transport" headline to the paragraph below.

> Sentry Python 2.0 is now only compatible with self-hosted Sentry `v20.6.0` and above, since the SDK now sends all events to the `/envelope` endpoint. Self-hosted Sentry users must upgrade their self-hosted instance to a compatible version. No action is needed for SaaS users and self-hosted users already running a compatible Sentry version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry Python 2.0 is now only compatible with self-hosted Sentry `v20.6.0` and above, since the SDK now sends all events to the `/envelope` API endpoint. Self-hosted Sentry users must upgrade their self-hosted instance to a compatible version. No action is needed for SaaS users and self-hosted users already running a compatible Sentry version.
```

---
title: Migrate from 1.x to 2.x
sidebar_order: 8998
description: "Learn about migrating from sentry-python 1.x to 2.x"
---

<Note>

There is no stable 2.0 release of the Sentry Python SDK yet. An alpha version (`2.0.0a1`) is available for testing. If you decide to give it a try, please [let us know](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/issues) if you run into any issues!

</Note>

> If you want to move to version 2.x of the `sentry-python` SDK, we provide a short guide here of the most common patterns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide describes the common patterns involved in migrating to version 2.x of the `sentry-python` SDK.
```

> While the top level API stays the same for the most part, there's a number of deprecations and breaking changes in 2.0. Here's a selection that we think might affect the most people; for the full list of changes check out the [detailed migration guide in the repository](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/blob/sentry-sdk-2.0/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the top level API stays the same for the most part, there's a number of deprecations and breaking changes in 2.0. This guide captures the top changes that will affect most users and the corresponding updates they'll need to make in order to migrate. For the full list of changes, check out the [detailed migration guide in the repository](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/blob/sentry-sdk-2.0/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md).
```

> ## Configuration options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configuration Options
```
Title case headings

The `profiles_sample_rate` and `profiler_mode` options are not experimental anymore and can be used directly. Setting them via `_experiments` is deprecated and will be removed in the future.

The deprecated `with_locals` and `request_bodies` options have been removed in favor of their new counterparts: `include_local_variables` and `max_request_body_size`, respectively.

**Old**:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    with_locals=False,
    request_bodies="always",
    _experiments={
        "profiles_sample_rate": 1.0,
        "profiler_mode": "thread",
    },
)
```

**New**:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    include_local_variables=False,  # replaces with_locals
    max_request_body_size="always",  # replaces request_bodies
    profiles_sample_rate=1.0,  # replaces _experiments["profiles_sample_rate"]
    profiler_mode="thread",  # replaces _experiments["profiler_mode"]
)
```

> ## Python version support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Python Version Support
```

Reviewer 2: I would also move this section up to before config options since it affects whether users should migrate or not.

Sentry Python SDK 2.0 now only supports Python 3.6 and higher. If you're on Python 2.7 or 3.5 and lower, you'll need to stay on 1.x.

## API

> The deprecated top level API function `last_event_id()` was removed. The last event ID is still returned by `capture_event()`, `capture_exception()` and `capture_message()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API function `last_event_id()` was removed. The last event ID is still returned by `capture_event()`, `capture_exception()` and `capture_message()`.
```

> ## Custom instrumentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Custom Instrumentation
```

> If you create a transaction manually and later mutate the transaction in a `configure_scope` block this does not work anymore. Here is a recipe on how to change your code to make it work:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can no longer mutate a manually-created transaction in a `configure_scope` block. Instead, you need to get the current scope to mutate the transaction. Here is a recipe on how to change your code to make it work:
```

**Old**:

<SignInNote />

```python
transaction = sentry_sdk.transaction(...)

# later in the code execution:

with sentry_sdk.configure_scope() as scope:
    scope.set_transaction_name("new-transaction-name")
```

**New**:

<SignInNote />

```python
transaction = sentry_sdk.transaction(...)

# later in the code execution:

scope = sentry_sdk.Scope.get_current_scope()
scope.set_transaction_name("new-transaction-name")
```

> ## Self-hosted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Self-Hosted
```

The deprecated `with_locals` and `request_bodies` options have been removed in favor of their new counterparts: `include_local_variables` and `max_request_body_size`, respectively.

**Old**:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    with_locals=False,
    request_bodies="always",
    _experiments={
        "profiles_sample_rate": 1.0,
        "profiler_mode": "thread",
    },
)
```

**New**:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    include_local_variables=False,  # replaces with_locals
    max_request_body_size="always",  # replaces request_bodies
    profiles_sample_rate=1.0,  # replaces _experiments["profiles_sample_rate"]
    profiler_mode="thread",  # replaces _experiments["profiler_mode"]
)
```

## Python version support

Sentry Python SDK 2.0 now only supports Python 3.6 and higher. If you're on Python 2.7 or 3.5 and lower, you'll need to stay on 1.x.

## API changes

The deprecated top level API function `last_event_id()` was removed. The last event ID is still returned by `capture_event()`, `capture_exception()` and `capture_message()`.

## Transport changes

> The SDK will now always send events to the `/envelope` endpoint. If you're on SaaS you don't have to worry about this, but if you're running Sentry yourself you'll need version `v20.6.0` or higher of self-hosted Sentry.

Reviewer 3: I think we should very clearly call out the requirement to use Sentry ≥20.6.0. We could do so by rewriting this line to highlight first the compatibility changes, but I think it would be even better to call out at the beginning of the migration guide that users need to upgrade their Sentry instance (either in addition to this change, or by moving this section to the beginning).

```suggestion
Sentry Python 2.0 is now only compatible with self-hosted Sentry `v20.6.0` and above, since the SDK now sends all events to the `/envelope` endpoint. Self-hosted Sentry users must upgrade their self-hosted instance to a compatible version. No action is needed for SaaS users and self-hosted users already running a compatible Sentry version.
```
